

//  from end slide 3  

---part of slide 3---
+linked to a pdf 
q- what is the partial func.? vs total func. ?  ext
    a- all inputs are considered 
p-q- what is the result of sparql formally op42 
q- what is solution sequence op42 
h- multiset is an unordered set 
q- what doeas this mean? µ(σ(P)) ⊆ G op43 
h- µ changes from querying to result set 
h- P is set of triple patterns 
h- denote the graph given by the triples in P after first replacing bnodes according to σ, and then replacing variables according to µ
h- The multiset of these solutions is denoted evalG(P)
h- film-actor example 
h- cardinality 其实就是个数，集合中的
h- 在查询中的bnode can be mapped to two resources, so there will be two things in solution multiset
q- what is the cardinality in this position? given a graph and a query op44
q- what is the result from this query? to this graph? this database? op45 
h- result should be a list of value to the vars
q- What is evalG(eg:s eg:p eg:o) over the empty graph G = ∅? op48 
q- what is Boolean queries? op50 
q- What is evalG(eg:s eg:p eg:o) over the graph G = {eg:s eg:p eg:o}? op50
h- sparql is meanly depend on matching graph patterns(暴力枚举？)


---slide4---
h- Wikidata as a working example to try out our knowledge, other resources possible 
h- Wikidata is a Free Knowledge Graph database that we can play with 
q- what are properties of wikidata? op08 
h- Dec 2014: Google announces the closure of Freebase and migration to Wikidata
h- 4th Feb 2013: The first statements can be created
h- 2012: Wikidata development kick-off in Berlin
h- create and dev between 2012-2014 
q- applications of wikidata? 
    a- 
        in apps: Data-driven journalism, Knowledge base of intelligent assistants such as Apple Siri and Amazon Alexa
        in research: Wikidata as a subject of study (social dynamics, internationality, biases, . . . )
q- wikidata is a Wikimedia project? what is WMF? op17 
q- wikidata can be viewed and modified online? 
q- basic principles of wikidata? op20 x7 
h- wikidata has one page per entity, with diff. sections 
q- what are two views of wikidata? and their properties. op28 
q- what is Wikidata entity documents? the content it has? - op34 
t- language-independent id, abel, short description, and list of aliases
    best available language, statements may have a rank, which encodes their current significance
    Site links: Connections to pages on other Wikimedia projects
q- what is the main part of the page? 
    a- statements
q- how to realise entity-level information integration? 
p-q- how does property pages differs from entity pages? op34
q- Why does Wikidata use abstract (numeric) QIDs and PIDs? op35 
q- How to find the ID of an item? ext op35 
    a- just google item + "wikidata id" may work 
h- statements may Annotated with property-value pairs
q- what is Wikidata’s basic information units? 
q- how statements can be build? op37 
    a- Wikidata items... 
q- start time is a property type? y
h- property types are predicates, list of all possible properties can be found online 
    https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Wikidata:List_of_properties/politics
    subclass of (P279)
    instance of (P31)
h- Texts in a specific language (similar to language-tagged RDF strings)
h- Property types cannot be changed once created.
q- how does wikidata store infos. internally? op41
    a- Wikidata is internally stored in the document-centric form using a JSON format
q- why Data is converted to RDF? for external use? 
p-q- differences bet. Wikidata’s graph view and rdf? op43 x3 
h- they both Based on directed, labelled, multi-graph
h- we can Encoding statements in RDF(statements are in graph view)
h- wikidata has rdf dump, converts will happen inside this process, encoding statements in RDF
    is not easy. 
h- some predefined prefix:https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Wikibase/Indexing/RDF_Dump_Format
q- how to encode statements when where are many annotations? op46 
    a- in the style of reification
    h- annotations are predicate-object pairs, include bnodes can help 
q- what is diff. bet. wdt: and p: op50 ext 
    a- 
        Truthy statement predicates have prefix wdt: with the property name (e.g. wdt:P2
        The statements(bnodes ) are linked to the entity with the predicate with prefix p: and the name of the property (e.g. p:P2).
        wdt is the ori. version of Connections
        p: Connects subject(entities) with helper nodes
h- References and complex values are represented using auxiliary nodes
q- rules that trans. from wikidata to rdf? ext -h op51 
h- Order of qualifiers or statements is not represented in RDF
q- is there some information loss during that conversion? y
h- The complete Wikidata-to-RDF documentation is available online
q- how to encode statements? -h 
q- how to encode Labels, descriptions, aliases? Sitelinks? op52 
q- what is content negotiation? ext 
h- Wikidata SPARQL Query Service (WDQS)
q- liberal configuration, how about the timeout? how many secs? op54 
h- features about online query Service? (if a online qu. should be dev.)
    a- Query editing support (auto-completion, suggestions. examples) 
q- how WDQS can be used? op55 x3 
    a-  playing an important role in Wikidata editing and quality control
    but keeping up with Wikidata’s growth becomes harder
h- wdqs uses typical LAMP stack, BlazeGraph used as free and open-source graph database
    script used to monitor changes and update the database accordingly
    incoming requests distributed by load balancing (LVS)
    public SPARQL query service is available
q- SPARQL query features? ext! 



---part of slide5---
h- core of sparql relies on basic graph patterns (BGPs)
     returns sequences or multi-sets of partial functions (“solutions”)
q- what are property paths? op5 
s-q- Find all descendants of Johann Sebastian Bach op06 
    with no predicate hasChild but two predicates hasFather and hasMother
h- Property path syntax-- similar to regular expression
q- how does this execute? ˆ!ˆeg:p1*/eg:p2?|eg:p3+ op07 
    a- (((ˆ((!(ˆeg:p1))*))/(eg:p2?))|(eg:p3+))
q- ˆ(iri*) is actually the same as the meaning of (ˆiri)*? 
h- property path pattern is a triple hs, p, oi,
h- extending Turtle syntax to allow 
p-q- meaning of the following ppp op09 
    ?x !(eg:p|eg:q)* ?y:
    ?x eg:p/eg:p eg:o:
    ?x (!eg:p|!ˆeg:q)* ?y
    ...
h- or inside a sparql query, which may be hard 
q- the semantic def. of the property paths (more formal) op11
    path(!(iri1|· · · |irin)) = ? 
h- a path from µ(σ(s)) to µ(σ(o)) that is labelled by a word in path(pp)
h- We do not count the number of distinct paths: only existence is checked.
h- SPARQL 1.1 sometimes counts some paths
q- why counting paths is not feasible in g op14 
h- we may “erases” the count
q- Find all descendants of Bach that were composers op15 
// Filters
h- Filters can express many conditions to eliminate some of the query results
...
// Projection and Solution Set Modifiers
...
// Groups, Union, Minus, Optional, Subqueries
...
// Values and Bind
// Aggregates
h- Aggregates are used to obtain answers that combine several solutions.
h- SPARQL aggregate functions: op45 
// HAVING

(keep a snippets file to prac. )

---slide6---
h- SPARQL is a feature-rich query language
h- bgps are conjunctions of triple patterns
q- what is miu. in this context? op04
h- SPARQL algebra that are under queries, which is key to understand the complexity of it 

---slide7---
---slide8---
---slide9---
---slide10---
---slide11---
---slide12---
---slide13---
---slide14---







